README.md, before:

# Datadog Instrumentation

This branch contains code for Datadog instrumentation.

By default, hitting an API endpoint will generate a trace, which is sent to CubeAPM. This behavior is controlled via environment variables in [docker-compose.yml](docker-compose.yml).

Refer the project README below for more details.

# Go Gin net/http Instrumentation

This is a sample app to demonstrate how to instrument Go Gin app using net/http with **Datadog**, **Elastic**, **New Relic** and **OpenTelemetry**. It contains source code for the Go Gin app which interacts with various services like Redis, MySQL, MongoDB, Kafka, ClickHouse, etc. to demonstrate tracing for these services. This repository has a docker compose file to set up all these services conveniently.

The code is organized into multiple branches. The main branch has the Go Gin net/http app without any instrumentation. Other branches then build upon the main branch to add specific instrumentations as below:

| Branch                                                                                         | Instrumentation | Code changes for instrumentation                                                                                |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [main](https://github.com/cubeapm/sample_app_go_gin_http/tree/main)         | None            | -                                                                                                               |
| [datadog](https://github.com/cubeapm/sample_app_go_gin_http/tree/datadog) | Datadog       | [main...datadog](https://github.com/cubeapm/sample_app_go_gin_http/compare/main...datadog) |
| [elastic](https://github.com/cubeapm/sample_app_go_gin_http/tree/elastic)         | Elastic   | [main...elastic](https://github.com/cubeapm/sample_app_go_gin_http/compare/main...elastic)         |
| [newrelic](https://github.com/cubeapm/sample_app_go_gin_http/tree/newrelic) | New Relic       | [main...newrelic](https://github.com/cubeapm/sample_app_go_gin_http/compare/main...newrelic) |
| [otel](https://github.com/cubeapm/sample_app_go_gin_http/tree/otel)         | OpenTelemetry   | [main...otel](https://github.com/cubeapm/sample_app_go_gin_http/compare/main...otel)         |

## Setup

Clone this repository and go to the project directory. Then run the following commands

```
docker compose up --build
```

Go Gin app will now be available at `http://localhost:8000`.

The app has various API endpoints to demonstrate OpenTelemetry integrations with Redis, MySQL, MongoDB, Kafka, ClickHouse, etc. Check out [main.go](main.go) for the list of API endpoints.

# Contributing

Please feel free to raise PR for any enhancements - additional service integrations, library version updates, documentation updates, etc.

Commit message:

addded instrumentation with mongo, external-http, kafka,redis and troubleshooting steps

README.md, after:

# Datadog Instrumentation

This branch contains code for Datadog instrumentation.

By default, hitting an API endpoint will generate a trace, which is sent to CubeAPM. This behavior is controlled via environment variables in [docker-compose.yml](docker-compose.yml).

Refer the project README below for more details.

## Troubleshooting

If the app does not show up in CubeAPM after integration is done, add the below environment variables to check Datadog tracer logs.

```shell
# Print Datadog tracer startup logs on screen
DD_TRACE_STARTUP_LOGS=true

# Enable Datadog tracer debug logging if needed to see detailed logs
#DD_TRACE_DEBUG=true
```

# Go Gin net/http Instrumentation

This is a sample app to demonstrate how to instrument Go Gin app using net/http with **Datadog**, **Elastic**, **New Relic** and **OpenTelemetry**. It contains source code for the Go Gin app which interacts with various services like Redis, MySQL, MongoDB, Kafka, ClickHouse, etc. to demonstrate tracing for these services. This repository has a docker compose file to set up all these services conveniently.

The code is organized into multiple branches. The main branch has the Go Gin net/http app without any instrumentation. Other branches then build upon the main branch to add specific instrumentations as below:

| Branch                                                                                         | Instrumentation | Code changes for instrumentation                                                                                |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [main](https://github.com/cubeapm/sample_app_go_gin_http/tree/main)         | None            | -                                                                                                               |
| [datadog](https://github.com/cubeapm/sample_app_go_gin_http/tree/datadog) | Datadog       | [main...datadog](https://github.com/cubeapm/sample_app_go_gin_http/compare/main...datadog) |
| [elastic](https://github.com/cubeapm/sample_app_go_gin_http/tree/elastic)         | Elastic   | [main...elastic](https://github.com/cubeapm/sample_app_go_gin_http/compare/main...elastic)         |
| [newrelic](https://github.com/cubeapm/sample_app_go_gin_http/tree/newrelic) | New Relic       | [main...newrelic](https://github.com/cubeapm/sample_app_go_gin_http/compare/main...newrelic) |
| [otel](https://github.com/cubeapm/sample_app_go_gin_http/tree/otel)         | OpenTelemetry   | [main...otel](https://github.com/cubeapm/sample_app_go_gin_http/compare/main...otel)         |

## Setup

Clone this repository and go to the project directory. Then run the following commands

```
docker compose up --build
```

Go Gin app will now be available at `http://localhost:8000`.

The app has various API endpoints to demonstrate OpenTelemetry integrations with Redis, MySQL, MongoDB, Kafka, ClickHouse, etc. Check out [main.go](main.go) for the list of API endpoints.

# Contributing

Please feel free to raise PR for any enhancements - additional service integrations, library version updates, documentation updates, etc.
